Imad Lahoud 

Imad Lahoud was born into a Christian Maronite family in Lebanon with a long military tradition. His grandfather served in the French army when Lebanon was under French mandate. His father and uncles have all held high positions. Following his father's wishes, the Lahoud family moved to France in 1982. He obtained his French baccalaureate in 1985 at the private high school Saint-Louis-de-Gonzague in Paris 16e. 
Passionate about science and mathematics, he continued his studies with a diploma of advanced studies in physics and mathematics, which he obtained with honors, after an internship at Gan.

Imad Lahoud’s journey

After his baccalaureate obtained in June 1985, he entered a preparatory class of higher mathematics. His schooling goes well and he has good results. 
In 1986 he entered the special mathematics class, at the end of which he passed the entrance exams to the prestigious grandes écoles without success. During his first trimester, his father fell ill with cancer and went back to Lebanon to be treated. During his first trimester, his father fell ill with cancer and went back to Lebanon for treatment. Therefore, he had to take care of the rest of his family. In these conditions, he obtained only mediocre results. He got access to small schools that did not interest him. Fortunately, his good results in physics and a good appreciation of his teacher at the time allowed him to enroll in and follow the courses of the inter-university master's degree in physics between the universities of Paris 7, Paris 6 and the École normale supérieure. At the same time, he was a teacher to make ends meet: he was an examiner in physics in the higher mathematics class at the Lycée Janson de Sailly and at the Lycée Corneille; he was also a lecturer in mathematics in the first year at Paris VII. Teaching gives him great satisfaction. A satisfaction that he will find again much later when he is in charge of research at EADS (European Aeronautic Defence and Space company also known as Airbus).
Source: "Le coupable idéal", by Imad Lahoud.

Imad Lahoud obtained his first degree in 1989, a DEA (Diploma of Advanced Studies) in physics which did not give him complete satisfaction. So, the following year, marked by the death of his father, he did a DEA in mathematics which he obtained with honors. 
Imad Lahoud then began to take an interest in the mathematical models used in the world of finance. He did his end-of-studies internship at Gan, which was then managed by François Heilbronner, his future father-in-law. 
The financial director with whom he worked was as brilliant as he was sympathetic. Imad Lahoud had a doctorate in mathematics and found the experience so amusing that he decided to follow it this time at Citibank in Paris to work on derivatives.
After his studies, Imad Lahoud seized the opportunity to work abroad. 
After Citibank he spent 4 years in London in different positions at UBS Merrill Lynch and Salomon. He obtained excellent results and earned a lot of money.
Source: "Le coupable idéal", by Imad Lahoud.

Imad Lahoud back in France

When he returned, Imad Lahoud struggled to find a job that really satisfied him and decided to set up his own business: he created the investment fund Volter in 1995. The adventure ended in 2000 due to the collapse of the stock market.
Imad Lahoud, amateur pilot, specialist in cyber security and passionate about civil and military aeronautics worked at Airbus from 2003 to 2007, where he restructured the entire research department alongside his boss, Yann Barbot, and set up the cyber security team.
It's important to know that in 2003/2004, no one was aware of cybersecurity. And in 2010/2011 there were already 500 people at Airbus.
Source: "Le coupable idéal", by Imad Lahoud.

Imad Lahoud’s life from 2006 to 2009 - The transition to mathematics

It was in 2006 that the changeover took place. Imad Lahoud enrolled in the top of the range preparation of Paris-VII. The first year, depression kept him away from classes. But he did not give up and camped in the library. 

Imad Lahoud returned to university in 2007 with one goal in mind: to obtain his agrégation in mathematics. 
He would wake up in the morning, go to college, and work at night. Like a return to prep school. And every Saturday morning he would go to college and work on an essay for 6 hours. A little anecdote, the first time he went to the blackboard, at 37-38 years old, one of the professors told him : "Well you are not unpleasant to listen to"... before trashing him on the blackboard. He was taking care of his children and at the same time he was preparing the agregation. The agregation is 60 books to know by heart, you have to know that there are about a hundred students from the Ecole Normale Supérieure enrolled, there were not many places at the time. The first time he failed, he was not ready because he had not done academic math for a long time. Then he did it again and re-enrolled. At the same time, to vary the pleasures, he registered for a DEA in math, even if he had already had one before.

In the exams, Imad Lahoud was successful from the start. On December 15, 2007, he was ranked first in his class, with 13.6 out of 20 in general mathematics. A little earlier, he got a 15.9. Armed with the "agreg", he missed it with flying colors. "Refusal of an obstacle", they say. The best of this elite preparatory school is not even eligible. But he wanted to take the competitive examination that crowned the well-made. So, Sisyphus of maths, he started again. And in the summer of 2009, he was admitted. He was admitted 196th out of 253 and was awarded this prestigious title, even though he had only two DEA degrees and had pretended to be a normal student. Ironically, his worst mark, the one that put him below the top 100, was in the computer science test.

Grateful, Imad Lahoud wrote to one of the people in charge of the preparation. "It is thanks to a super-team at Paris-VII that I managed to hold up the difficult test of instruction." To which the mathematician replies, "If we helped you, it's clear to me that you also helped us, by playing that oh-so-useful role of coach or big brother to our young people."
Source: https://www.lemonde.fr/societe/article/2010/01/27/imad-lahoud-echecs-et-maths_1297371_3224.html

Imad Lahoud, “the best teacher ever”

After graduating in 2009, he began teaching in preparatory classes for the grandes écoles at the Lycée Carnot in 2010 and then at Intégrale until 2013. 
Usually, new teachers serve one year as interns and then are granted tenure. But from the very first inspection, her work was noticed. "The dean of the general inspection liked what he saw; he proposed that she work in a preparatory class. 1 month later at Prépa HEC in Chaptal. He was appointed for 2 years at the Lycée Carnot, in the HEC preparatory class. For the first time, he had his own class, his own students, and things went very well. The students loved him and obtained very good results in the
and described Imad Lahoud as an excellent teacher. In 2012, he was approached by the Intégrale preparatory school, which wanted Imad Lahoud to give classes at their place. So, in addition to his classes at Carnot, he gave classes at Intégrale until 2013.
Sources: https://www.lemonde.fr/societe/article/2010/01/27/imad-lahoud-echecs-et-maths_1297371_3224.html and "Le coupable idéal", by Imad Lahoud.

Imad Lahoud back to the aeronautics field and expatriation

Imad Lahoud, who headed Assystem in 2014 until 2015, has supported his clients in the design, construction supervision, commissioning and operation of their industrial infrastructures so that they have safe and efficient facilities within their budget and schedule.
Imad Lahoud decided to move to the UAE, in 2016.
That’s also the year when he became General Manager of Atlas Aerospace, a company specialized in the repair and overhaul of key aerospace components. 
Since November 2018, the Franco-Lebanese Imad Lahoud has been the CTO of Medad Group, a research company based in Abu Dhabi.
